# Tableau-Youtube-Dashboard

Link to tableau story.
 1) Insight no. 1
 Link to – inside the story, the first dashboard.
 Summary – The first dashboard includes 3 dynamic bar charts, one showing top channels by metrics provided, second showing top titles and 3rd showing top tags. It also includes one treemap chart showing top category composition by metrics. Metrics can be chosen from the metric dropdown. If we want to filter by different regions of the US then we need to choose True in Region filter and then select the region from the Region parameter. To get the top n values of the metrics we can make use of the top n dropdown. The dashboard can also be filtered by a particular day or a year through the filters provided.
It is seen that the top channel by likes was ibighit, the top video title by likes was j-hope ‘Airplane’ MV, the top video category by likes was Music and the top tag by likes was ”Pop. The top video category in each of 5 US regions i.e., WEST, NORTHEAST, SOUTH, MIDWEST & PR (Puerto Rico) was Music whereas in PACIFIC region it was People & Blogs.
 Design – Bar charts were used to show categories and their corresponding aggregate values. The top channels by metrics chart shows different channels with their corresponding values of metrics chosen by the filter provided. Top titles shows the video titles and their metric values. Similarly, Top tags chart shows top individual tags used by metrics. A treemap chart is also shown which indicates the hierarchy of top video category of youtube videos. Blue, orange colour and its shades were used in this dashboard considering colour-blindness aspect of viewers.
 Resources – https://www.tableau.com/about/blog/examining-data-viz-rules-dont-use-red-green-together 2) Insight no. 2
 Link to – inside the story, the second dashboard.
 Summary – The second dashboard includes one map, on bar chart and one line chart. The map shows the top states in the US through filter provided, it also indicates corresponding rank of each state on the tooltip & view by metric provided through the filter. The tooltip of the map also contains the treemap chart of video categories. The top states by metrics bar chart shows the states in order of highest value of metrics provided to lowest value. The line chart shows the metric values of states over time. There are 2 filters and 2 parameters provided. The metric parameter dropdown can be used to filter the dashboard to show values of views, likes, dislikes & comment count. The top n dropdown will enable to filter the dashboard by top n states and their values. The month, year and the year filter is also provided.
It is seen that the top state by likes was CA whereas the highest likes on a single day were from MD which ranks as 5th overall. The last ranked state was MS.
 Design – A map was used to show different state locations on the map which can also be used as a filter. A bar chart was used to show different states and their matric values using filters. A timeline chart was used to show the change in values of metrics of different states over time and how different states compare with each other. Blue, orange colour and its shades were used in this dashboard considering colour-blindness aspect of viewers. Colour-blind palette was used for the timeline graph as well.
 Resources – N/A
3) Insight no. 3
 Link to – inside the story, the third dashboard.
 Summary – The third dashboard includes one map, on bar chart and one line chart. The map shows the top cities in the US through filters provided, it also indicates corresponding rank of each city on the tooltip & view by metric provided through the filter. The tooltip of the map also contains the treemap chart of video categories. The top cities by metrics bar chart shows the cities in order of highest value of metrics provided to lowest value. The line chart shows the metric values of citiess over time. There are 2 filters and 2 parameters provided. The metric parameter dropdown can be used to filter the dashboard to show values of views, likes, dislikes & comment count. The top n dropdown will enable to filter the dashboard by top n states and their values. The month, year and the year filter is also provided.
It is seen that the top city by likes was Atalanta,GA whereas the highest likes on a single day were from Baltimore, MD which ranks as 2th overall in city rankings by likes shown on map tooltip.
 Design – A map was used to show different city locations on the map which can also be used as a filter. A bar chart was used to show different cities and their matric values using filters. A timeline chart was used to show the change in values of metrics of different citiess over time and how different cities compare with each other. Blue, orange colour and its shades were used in this dashboard considering colour-blindness aspect of viewers. Colour-blind palette was used for the timeline graph as well.
